docs: consul-vault kubernetes integration docs (#11766)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/k8s/installation/vault/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Vault as Secrets Backend Overview
description: >-
  Using Vault as secrets backend for Consul on Kubernetes.
---

# Vault as Secrets Backend Overview

By default, Consul Helm chart will expect that any credentials it needs are stored as Kubernetes secrets.
As of Consul 1.11 and Consul Helm chart v0.?.?, we integrate more natively with Vault making it easier
to use Consul Helm chart with Vault as the secrets storage backend.

At a high level, there are two points of integration with Vault:
- **Gossip encryption** - The encryption key for gossip communication is stored in Vault.
- **TLS certificates and keys**:
  - **Consul Server TLS credentials** - TLS certificate and key for the Consul server is stored in Vault and issued from Vault.
  - **Service Mesh and Consul client TLS credentials** - Consul uses Vault as the provider for mTLS certificates and keys for the service mesh services
  and TLS certificates and keys for the Consul clients.

## Requirements

> 1. Vault 1.19+ and Vault-k8s 0.13+ is required.

Reviewer: I belive vault-k8s 0.14+ is required, as noted in the changelog?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Vault 1.9+ and Vault-k8s 0.14+ is required.
```

1. `global.tls.enableAutoencrypt=true` is required if TLS is enabled for the Consul installation when using the Vault secrets backend.

A minimal valid installation of Vault must include the Agent Injector:
```yaml
injector:
  enabled: "true"
```

## Known Limitations

- TLS
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalDNSSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - `global.tls.serverAdditionalIPSans` is not currently configurable and must be manually added to the server certificate in Vault.
  - Mesh gateway is not currently supported.
- Multi-DC Federation is not currently supported.
- Certificate rotation is not currently supported, ensure the TTL for your certificates is sufficiently long. Should your certificates
expire it will be necessary to issue a `consul reload` on each server.
- CA rotation is not currently supported.

## Next Steps

To utilize Vault as a secrets backend with Consul it is necessary to add several configuration fields to the Vault installation
which bootstrap Vault Auth roles and Policies for Consul to use. For the supported Vault secrets please see the individual secret

> guides and ensure to, when combining the secrets, append the Vault Policies to your Vault Kube Auth Roles via a CSV.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
guides and ensure to, when combining the secrets, append the Vault Policies to your Vault Kube Auth Roles via a comma separated value (i.e. `policies=gossip-policy,consul-ca,consul-server,custom-policy`).
```
